Sphinx manual (#566)
pytrip/pytripgui: docs/usage.rst

=====================================
Configuration and main usage scenario
=====================================

After opening the application you should be presented with this view:

.. image:: _images/main_window_empty.png
	:align: center

Configuration
=============

First, you need to set up the TRIP98 configuration of the application. To do that, from the main application view, click *Settings* and then *Trip98 Config*.
TRIP98 can be set up either on your local machine or a remote one, so choose the one that suits your needs.
Presented below are both of the configuration views with explanations for each field.

.. image:: _images/trip_configuration_local.png
	:width: 49 %

.. image:: _images/trip_configuration_remote.png
	:width: 49 %

> Next up is the beam kernel setup. From the main application view, click on *Settins* and *Beam Kernels*. Below you can find its configuration view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next up is the beam kernel setup. From the main application view, click on *Settings* and *Beam Kernels*. Below you can find its configuration view.
```

Note that the paths for DDD, SPC and SIS can be remote.

.. image:: _images/beam_kernel_setup.png
	:align: center
	:width: 65 %

Main usage scenario
===================

> In this usage scenario you will import some patient data either from a DICOM or a Voxelplan, configure a simulation of a treatment plan, execute it and observe its results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this usage scenario you will import patient data either from DICOM or Voxelplan files, configure a simulation of a treatment plan, execute it and observe its results.
```

From the main application view, click on *Add patient* and then either *Open Voxelplan* or *Open DICOM*.

.. image:: _images/new_patient_smol.png
	:align: center
	
After the selected data gets loaded in, you should be presented with the following dialog box:

.. image:: _images/contour_request.png
	:align: center
	

> Regardless of whether you choose to precalculate VOI contours or not, a position with the imported data should be visible under *Patient tree*, on the left.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of whether you choose to precalculate VOI contours or not, an entry with the imported data should be visible under *Patient tree*, on the left.
```

> Here you can switch between imported files, simply by clicking on their name. You should also see a preview of the imported data, more specifically one of its slices, which you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can switch between imported files by clicking on their name. You should also see a preview of the imported data, more specifically one of its slices, which you can
```

> change by using the scroll wheel or moving the slider visible on the far right. Above the preview, you can also switch between the three different planes with a drop-down list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
switch by using the scroll wheel or moving the slider visible on the far right. Above the preview, you can also switch between the three different planes with a drop-down list.
```

> Below *Patient tree*, you can find *VOI list* from which you can select any VOIs that you'd like to make visible and see in the preview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below the *Patient tree*, you can find the *VOI list* from which you can select any VOIs that you'd like to make visible and see its contours in the preview.
```

.. image:: _images/main_window_patient_loaded_contours.png
	:align: center
	

> To configure the treatment plan, click on *Create plan*, go to the *Target* tab and then select one of the positions from *Target ROI*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the treatment plan, click on *Create plan*, go to the *Target* tab and then select one of the entries from *Target ROI*.
```

.. image:: _images/creating_plan_target.png
	:align: center

In the *Results* tab, you can choose what kind of data you'd like to get as part of the simulation results of this treatment plan.

.. image:: _images/creating_plan_results.png
	:align: center

Afterwards, to configure the source of the radiation dose, click on *Create field*.

.. image:: _images/creating_field.png
	:align: center
	
Note that the created treatment plans and fields are also visible under *Patient tree*.

Finally, to execute the simulation of the created treatment plan, click on *Execute*. You should see a window pop up, which reports on the progress of the simulation.

.. image:: _images/executing_plan_start.png
	:align: center
	

> The simulation completes soon after the **Done** message is displayed. You can click *OK* to close the window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simulation completes soon after the *Done* message is displayed. You can click *OK* to close the window.
```
All quotes in italics for consistency.

.. image:: _images/executing_plan_end_wo_dvh.png
	:align: center
	

> You should be able to see the distribution of the calculated dose in the preview. If the results also include a LET distribution you can switch to it by expanding the simulation position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should be able to see the distribution of the calculated dose in the preview. If the results also include a LET distribution you can switch to it by expanding the simulation entry
```

> from under *Patient tree* and clicking on the appropriate item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
under *Patient tree* and clicking on the appropriate item.
```
